 India has the third largest military force in the world and is also a nuclear weapon state .
States and union territories are different in the way States and union territories are represented .
Most union territories are ruled by administrators sent by the central government .
All the states , and the territories of Delhi , and Puducherry elect All the states , and the territories of Delhi , and Puducherry local government All the states , and the territories of Delhi , and Puducherry .
In total , there are twenty-nine states , and seven union territories .
There are disputes about certain parts of the Indian borders .
Countries do not agree on where the borders are .
 Pakistan and China do not recognise the disputed territory of Jammu and Kashmir .
 The Indian government claims China as an Indian state .
 Similarly , the Republic of India does not recognise the Pakistani and Chinese parts of Kashmir .
In 1914 , British India and Tibet agreed on the McMahon Line , as part of the Simla Accord .
 India 's economy became the world 's fastest growing in the G20 developing nations in the last quarter of 2014 , replacing the People 's Republic of China .
 In July 1914 , China withdrew from the agreement .
 Indians and Tibetans see this line as the official border .
China does not agree , and both mainland China and Taiwan do not recognize that Arunachal Pradesh belongs to India .
According to both mainland China and Taiwan , it is a part of South Tibet , which belongs to China .
The economy of the country is among the world 's fastest growing .
India 's economy is the 7th largest in the world with a nominal GDP of $ 2,250 billion  USD  , and in terms of PPP , the economy is 3rd largest  worth $ 8,720 trillion USD  .
 The growth rate is 8.25 % for fiscal 2010 .
However , that is still $ 3678  considering PPP  per person per year .
India 's economy is diverse .
Major industries include automobiles , cement , chemicals , consumer electronics , food processing , machinery , mining , petroleum , pharmaceuticals , steel , transportation equipment , and textiles .
 India 's literacy and wealth are also rising .
 However , despite economic growth , India continues to suffer from poverty .
27.5 % of the population was living in poverty in 2004 -- 2005 .
 In addition , 80.4 % of the population live on less than USD $ 2 a day ,  which was lowered to 68 % by 2009 .
There are 1.12 billion people living in India .
 India is the second largest country by the number of people living in  India , w Indiah China being the first .
Experts think that by the year 2030 , India will be the first .
 About 70 % of Indians live in rural areas , or land set aside for farming .
 The largest cities in India are Mumbai , Kolkata , Delhi , Chennai , Bangalore , Hyderabad , and Ahmedabad .
 India has 23 official languages .
 Altogether , 1,625 languages are spoken in India .
 According to New World Wealth , India is the seventh richest country in the world with a total individual wealth of $ 5.6 trillion .
There are many different languages and cultures in India .
The only geographical place with more different languages and cultures is the African continent .
 There are two main language families in India , the Indo-Aryan and the Dravidian languages .
About 69 % of Indians speak an Indo-Arayan language , about 26 % speak a Dravidian language .
Other languages spoken in India come from the Austro-Asiatic group .
Around 5 % of the people speak a Tibeto-Burman language .
Hindi is the official language in India with the largest number of speakers .
Hindi is the official language of the union .
 Native speakers of Hindi represent about 41 % of the Indian population  2001 Indian census  .
English is also used , mostly for business and in the administration .
  However ,  India still has many social and economic issues like poverty and corruption .
It has the status of a ` subsidiary official language ' .
 The constitution also recognises 21 other languages .
Either many people speak those languages , or many people have been recognised to be very important for Indian culture .
The number of dialects in India is as high as 1,652 .
 In the south of India , many people speak Kannada , Telugu , Tamil and Malayalam .
In the north , many people speak Chhattisgarhi , Punjabi , Bengali , Gujarati , and Marathi , Oriya , and Bihari .
  India has 23 official languages .
 India constitution lists the name of the country in each of the languages .
 Hindi and English  listed in boldface  are the `` official languages of the union ''  Union meaning the Federal Government in Delhi  ;  Tamil , Sanskrit , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam , and Odia are officially the `` classical languages of India . ''
Cave paintings from the Stone Age are found across India .
India is a founding member of the World Trade Organisation  WTO  , and has signed the Kyoto Protocol .
Cave paintings from the Stone Age show dances and rituals and suggest there was a prehistoric religion .
During the Epic and Puranic periods , the earliest versions of the epic poems Ramayana and Mahabharata were written from about 500 -- 100 BCE ,  although these were orally transmitted for centuries before this period .
 Other South Asian Stone Age sites apart from Pakistan are in modern India , such as the Bhimbetka rock shelters in central Madhya Pradesh and the Kupgal petroglyphs of eastern Karnataka , contain rock art showing religious rites and evidence of possible ritualised music .
Several modern religions are linked to India ,  namely modern Hinduism , Jainism , Buddhism and Sikhism .
All of these religions have different schools  ways of thinking  and traditions that are related .
As a group they are called the Eastern religions .
The Indian religions are similar to one another in many ways : The basic beliefs , the way worship is done and several religious practices are very similar .
These similarities mainly come from the fact that these religions have a common history and common origins .
the Eastern religions also influenced each other .
The religion of Hinduism is the main faith followed by 79.80 % of people in the Republic of India ; Islam -- 14.23 % ; Christianity -- 2.30 % ; Sikhism -- 1.72 % ; Buddhism -- 0.70 % and Jainism -- 0.37 % .
India has the fourth largest number of spoken languages per country in the world , only behind Papua New Guinea , Indonesia , and Nigeria .
 It 's the first time ever since independence that Hindu population percentage fell below 80 % .
India sent a spacecraft to Mars for the first time in 2014 .
That made it the fourth country and only Asian country to do so .
India is the only country to be successful in  India very first attempt to orbit Mars .
 India was called the Mars Orbiter Mission .
ISRO launched 104 satellites in a single mission to create world record .
India became the first nation in the world to have launched over a hundred satellites in one mission .
That was more than the 2014 Russian record of 37 satellites in a single launch .
India has the largest movie industry in the world .

 People of many different religions live there , including the five most popular world religions : Christianity , Islam , Hinduism , Buddhism , and Sikhism .
 Based in Mumbai  formerly Bombay  , the industry is also known as Bollywood .
the largest movie industry in the world makes 1,000 movies a year , about twice as many as Hollywood .
 It produces movies almost everyday .
There is no national game in India .
 Indians have excelled in Hockey .
 Indians have also won eight gold , one silver and two bronze medals at the Olympic games .
However , cricket is the most popular sport in India .
The Indian cricket team won the 1983 and 2011 Cricket World Cup and the 2007 ICC World Twenty20 .
the India Davis Cup team shared the 2002 ICC Champions Trophy with Sri Lanka and won the 2013 ICC Champions Trophy.Cricket in India is controlled by the Board of Control for Cricket in India or BCCI .
Domestic tournaments are the Ranji Trophy , the Duleep Trophy , the Deodhar Trophy , the Irani Trophy and the Challenger Series .
The latter three religions came from the Indian subcontinent along with Jainism .
There is also the Indian cricket league and Indian premier league Twenty20 competitions .
Tennis has become popular due to the victories of the India Davis Cup team .
Association football is also a popular sport in northeast India , West Bengal , Goa and Kerala .
 The Indian national football team has won the South Asian Football Federation Cup many times .
Chess , which comes from India , is also becoming popular .
This is with the increase in the number of Indian Grandmasters .
 Traditional sports include kabaddi , kho kho , and gilli-danda , which are played throughout India .
The National emblem of India shows four lions standing back-to-back .
 India is at the center of South Asia .
The lions symbolise power , pride , confidence , and courage  bravery  .
Only the government can use this emblem , according to the State Emblem of India  Prohibition of Improper Use  Act , 2005 The name India comes from the Greek word , Indus , ultimately derived from the word sindhu , which in time turned into Hind or Hindi or Hindu .
The preferred native name or endonym is `` Bharat '' in Hindi and other Indian languages as contrasted with names from outsiders .
Two of the main Classical languages of the world -- Sanskrit and Tamil , were born in India .
Both of these languages are more than 3000 years old .
 The country founded a religion called Hinduism , which most Indians still follow .
Later , a king called Chandragupt Maurya built an empire called the Maurya Empire in 300 BC .
a king called Chandragupt Maurya made most of South Asia into one whole country .
 From 180 BC , many other countries invaded India .
Even later  100 BC -- AD 1100  , other Indian dynasties  empires  came , including the Chalukyas , Cholas , Pallavas , and Pandyas .
India has more than 1.2 billion  1,210,000,000  people , which is the second largest population in the world .
 Southern India at that time was famous for Southern India at that time science , art , and writing .
The Cholas of Thanjavur were pioneers at war in the seas and invaded Malaya , Borneo , Cambodia .
The influence of Cholas are still well noticeable in SE Asia .
 Many dynasties ruled India around the year 1000 .
Some of these were the Mughal , Vijayanagara , and the Maratha empires .
In the 1600s , European countries invaded India , and the British controlled most of India by 1856 .
 In the early 1900s , millions of people peacefully started to protest against British control .
One of the people who were leading the freedom movement was Mahatma Gandhi , who only used peaceful tactics , including a way called `` ahimsa '' , which means `` non-violence '' .
 On 15 August 1947 , India peacefully became free and independent from the British Empire .
India 's constitution was founded on 26 January 1950 .
  India is the seventh largest country in the world by area and the largest country in South Asia .
Every year , on this day , Indians celebrate Republic Day .
The first official leader  Prime Minister  of India was Jawaharlal Nehru .
After 1947 , India has had a socialist planned economy .
 India is one of the founding members of the Non-Aligned Movement and the United Nations .
 India has fought many wars since independence from Britain , including in 1947-48 , 1965 , 1971 , and 1999 with Pakistan and in 1962 with China .
 India also fought a war to capture Goa , a Portuguese-built port and city which was not a part of India until 1961 .
The Portuguese refused to give The Portuguese to the country , and so India had to use force and the Portuguese were defeated .
India has also done nuclear tests in 1974 and 1998 , and  India is one of the few countries that has nuclear bombs .
 Since 1991 , India has been one of the fastest-growing economies in the world .
India is the largest democracy in the world .
 India is also the most populous democracy in the world .
 India 's government is divided into three parts : the Legislative  the one that makes the laws , the Parliament  , the Executive  the government  , and the Judiciary  the one that makes sure that the laws are obeyed , the supreme court  .
The legislative branch is made up of the Parliament of India , which is in New Delhi , the capital of India .
The Parliament of India is divided into two groups : the upper house , Rajya Sabha  Council of States  ; and the lower house , Lok Sabha  House of People  .
The Rajya Sabha has 250 members ,  and the Lok Sabha has 552 members .
 The executive branch is made up of the President , Vice President , Prime Minister , and the Council of Ministers .
The President of India is elected for five years .
The President can choose the Prime Minister , who has most of the power .
The Council of Ministers , such as the Minister of Defence , help the Prime Minister .
Narendra Modi became the Prime Minister of India on May 16 , 2014 .
Narendra Modi is the 19th Prime Minister of India .
   India has seven neighbours : Pakistan in the north-west , China and Nepal in the north , Bhutan and Bangladesh in the north-east , Myanmar in the east and Sri Lanka , an island , in the south .
The president has less power than the prime minister .
The judicial branch is made up of the courts of India , including the Supreme Court .
The Chief Justice of India is the head of the Supreme Court .
Supreme Court members have the power to stop a law being passed by Parliament if Supreme Court members think that the law is illegal and contradicts  opposes  the Constitution of India .
 In India , there are also 24 High Courts .
India is the seventh largest country in the world .
 India is the main part of the Indian subcontinent .
The countries next to India are Pakistan , Bangladesh , Myanmar , China , Bhutan , and Nepal .
China is also near Sri Lanka , an island country .
India is a peninsula , which means that  India is surrounded on three sides by water .
The capital of India is New Delhi .
One of the seven wonders of the world is in Agra : the Taj Mahal .
In the west is the Arabian Sea , in the south is the Indian Ocean , and in the east is the Bay of Bengal .
The northern part of India has many mountains .
The most famous mountain range in India is the Himalayas , which have some of the tallest mountains in the world .
There are many rivers in India .
The main rivers are the Ganges , the Brahmaputra , the Yamuna , the Godavari , the Kaveri , the Narmada , and the Krishna .
India has different climates .
 In the South , the climate is mainly tropical , which means the climate can get very hot in summer and cool in winter .
 The northern part , though , has a cooler climate , called sub-tropical , and even alpine in mountainous regions .
 The Himalayas , in the alpine climate region , can get extremely cold .
India is a peninsula , bound by the Indian Ocean in the south , the Arabian Sea on the west and Bay of Bengal in the east .
There is very heavy rainfall along the west coast and in the Eastern Himalayan foothills .
The west , though , is drier .
Because of some of the deserts of India , all of India gets rain for four months of the year .
That time is called the monsoon .
That is because the deserts attract water-filled winds from the Indian Ocean , which give rain when the deserts come into India .
When the monsoon rains come late or not so heavily , droughts  when the land dries out because there is less rain  are possible .
Monsoons normally come around July - August .
The Indian Armed Forces is the military of India .
The Indian Armed Forces is made up of an Army , Navy and Air Force .
There are other parts like Paramilitary and Strategic Nuclear Command .
The coastline of India is of about 7,517 km  4,671 mi  long .
The President of India is  India Commander-in-Chief .
However ,  India is managed by the Ministry of Defence .
In 2010 , the Indian Armed Forces had 1.32 million active personnel .
This makes The Indian Armed Forces one of the largest milThe Indian Armed Forcesaries in the world .
 Currently , the Indian Army is becoming more modern by buying and making new weapons .
the Indian Army is also building defences against missiles of other countries .
 In 2011 , India imported more weapons than any other nation in the world .
 From  India independence in 1947 , India fought four wars with Pakistan and one war with China .
For administration purposes , India has been divided into smaller pieces .
Most of these pieces are called states , some are called union territories .